<pre>
  OEP: 6
  Title: API for dApps (dAPI)
  Author: Matus Zamborsky <zamborsky@gmail.com>
  Type: Standard
  Status: Draft
  Created: 2018-08-03
</pre>

==Abstract==

A Javascript API is proposed for dApps development. This dAPI allows dApps to communicate with Ontology blockchain and make requests for transfers, ONT ID registration and others, without requiring users to trust the dApp itself. The issue of trust is shifted to the dAPI provider.

==Motivation==

Currently a dApp will use one of the SDKs (Typescript, Java, Python, ...) to communicate with Ontology network. This setup has three main disadvantages:

1. User of the dApp will have to trust the dApp developer with his private keys and that information about transfers mediated through the dApp are legitimate.

2. Although the SDKs are very powerful, they are hard to use. A more streamlined API will allow developers to focus on the application itself.

3. Hard to implement integration to external signing mechanism (e.g.: Ledger, Trezor)

==Specification==
This proposal makes use of the following functions and definitions:

*'''SDK''', a software development kit implementing low level communication with the network and providing high level interface for dApps.

*'''SHA256''', a well-known hashing algorithm that takes an arbitrary number of bytes as input and deterministically yields a 32-byte hash.

*'''dApp''', an application with decentralised characteristics running in web environment. The application uses Ontology network for value transfers, contracts enforcing and identification between participants.

*'''dAPI''', the API for dApps this OEP is proposing.

*'''dAPI provider''', an implementation of the dAPI in the form of web browser plugin or other means, where a user interaction with the provider can be injected into api call workflow (e.g.: confirming transfer).

*'''Notify event''', an event broadcasted from smart contract execution.

*'''NEOVM''', a lightweight virtual machine for execution of Neo/Ontology smart contracts.


===Components===
Although this proposal is bringing clear and simple API for the dApps, the individual functions can be divided into these components:

* '''Network''', a thin wrapper around the Ontology Node API, masking the complexity of rpc/rest calls and web-sockets with Request-Response facade.

* '''Asset''', functions for transferring assets between user account and others.

* '''Identity''', functions for interacting with own ONT-ID identity.

* '''SmartContract''', a high level wrapper around the Smart Contract invocation and deployment.

* '''Message''', functions for signing arbitrary messages.

* '''Utils''', a group of utility function for encoding and decoding the data from/to blockchain.

===Account/Identity management===
Because dAPI shifts the issue of trust from dApp to dApp provider, all account and identity management is external to the dApp. Therefore there are no methods which directly handle private keys. The dApp won't need to sign the transaction itself. 

Any time dApp makes a call that requires a private key to sign something (makeTransfer, sign), dApp provider will inform user about the action and prompt him for permission.

dApp provider can even forward the request to external signing mechanism as part of the process. This way the dApp does not need to specifically integrate with such mechanism.

===Complex structures===
API specification is a complex document. Every method has some inputs and outputs. Although we use the primitive types (numbers, strings, booleans) whenever possible, there are places where a complex object is required. To precisely describe the structure of those objects, we'd chosen Typescript syntax.


===Network===
A network API consists of:

<pre>
type Network = 'MAIN' | 'TEST' | 'PRIVATE';
type Asset = 'ont' | 'ong';

function getGenerateBlockTime(): Promise<number | null>
function getNodeCount(): Promise<number>
function getBlockHeight(): Promise<number>
function getMerkleProof(txHash: string): Promise<MerkleProof>
function getStorage(contract: string, key: string): Promise<string>
function getAllowance(asset: Asset, fromAddress: string, toAddress: string): Promise<BigNumber>
function getBlock(block: number | string): Promise<Block>
function getTransaction(txHash: string): Promise<Transaction>
function getNetwork(): Network
function getBalance(address: string): Promise<Balance>
</pre>

For further explanation about the wrapped method consult https://ontio.github.io/documentation/restful_api_en.html . The types '''Transaction''', '''Block''', '''MerkleProof''' and '''Balance''' corresponds to the exact object returned from Ontology blockchain. '''BigNumber''' corresponds to a implementation of BigNumbers.

===Asset===
A primary focus of Asset API is to enumerate the addresses under user control and initiate a transfer. The request needs to be confirmed by the user.

====getOwnAccounts====
<pre>
function getOwnAccounts(): string[]
</pre>

Returns all the accounts associated with logged in user.

====getDefaultAccount====
<pre>
function getDefaultAccount(): string | null
</pre>
Returns currently selected account of logged in user or null if there is none.

====makeTransfer====
<pre>
function makeTransfer(sender: string, recipient: string, asset: Asset, amount: BigNumber): Promise<void>
</pre>

Initiates a transfer of <code>amount asset</code> from <code>sender</code> account to <code>recipient</code> account. The <code>sender</code> must be one of the accounts returned by <code>getOwnAccounts</code>.


===Identity===
A primary focus of Identity API is to enumerate the ONT ID identities under user control and initiate a process of adding/removing attribute from the identity. The request needs to be confirmed by the user. 

====getOwnIdentities====
<pre>
function getOwnIdentities(): string[]
</pre>

Returns all the identities associated with logged in user.

====getDefaultIdentity====
<pre>
function getDefaultIdentity(): string | null
</pre>

Returns currently selected identity of logged in user or null if there is none.

====getDDO====
<pre>
interface OntIdDDO {
    ...
}

function getDDO(ontId: string): Promise<OntIdDDO>
</pre>

Queries Description Object of the identity. This operation is not signed and therefore does not require user interaction.

====getAttributes====
<pre>
interface OntIdAttribute {
    key: string;
    type: string;
    value: string;
}

function getAttributes(ontId: string): Promise<OntIdAttribute[]>
</pre>

Queries attributes attached to the identity. This operation is not signed and therefore does not require user interaction.


====addAttributes====
<pre>
function addAttributes(ontId: string, attributes: OntIdAttribute[]): Promise<void>
</pre>

Adds attributes to the identity. The <code>ontId</code> must be one of the identities returned by <code>getOwnIdentities</code>.

====removeAttributes====
<pre>
function removeAttribute(ontId: string, key: string): Promise<void>
</pre>

Removes attribute from the identity. The <code>ontId</code> must be one of the identities returned by <code>getOwnIdentities</code>.


===Message===
This API deals with arbitrary message signing and verification.

====signMessageHash====
<pre>
function signMessageHash(messageHash: string, accountOrIdentity: string): Promise<string>
</pre>

Initiates signing of arbitrary <code>messageHash</code> by the account or identity. The <code>accountOrIdentity</code> '''must''' be one of the accounts returned by <code>getOwnAccounts</code> or identities returned by <code>getOwnIdentities</code>.

This method does not require the dApp to disclose the message itself, only the hash. 

Because malicious dApp can hash a real prepared transfer transaction and plant it for signing, that posses a risk to the user.
Therefore the hash is prepended with known string '''Ontology message:''', hashed with '''SHA-256''' and only this hash is put for signing.

====verifyMessageHash====
<pre>
function verifyMessageHash(messageHash: string, accountOrIdentity: string, signature: string): Promise<boolean>
</pre>

Verifies that the <code>signature</code> is created by the account or identity over <code>messageHash</code>. The <code>accountOrIdentity</code> '''does not''' need to be one of the accounts returned by <code>getOwnAccounts</code> or identities returned by <code>getOwnIdentities</code>.

This method does not require the dApp to disclose the message itself, only the hash. The hash is prepended with known string '''Ontology message:''', hashed with '''SHA-256''' and only this hash is put for verification.


====signMessage====
<pre>
function signMessage(message: string, accountOrIdentity: string): Promise<string>
</pre>

Initiates signing of text <code>message</code> by the account or identity. The <code>accountOrIdentity</code> '''must''' be one of the accounts returned by <code>getOwnAccounts</code> or identities returned by <code>getOwnIdentities</code>.

This method provide the dAPI provider with the message body, which it should display to the user prior to signing (e.g.: a contract to sign). Signing is done on '''SHA-256''' hash of the message.

====verifyMessage====
<pre>
function verifyMessage(message: string, accountOrIdentity: string, signature: string): Promise<boolean>
</pre>

Verifies that the <code>signature</code> is created by the account or identity over text <code>message</code>. The <code>accountOrIdentity</code> '''does not''' need to be one of the accounts returned by <code>getOwnAccounts</code> or identities returned by <code>getOwnIdentities</code>.

Verification is done on '''SHA-256''' hash of the message.

===SmartContract===
The main functionality of this component is invocation of smart contract methods.

====invoke====
<pre>
type ParameterType = 'Boolean' | 'Integer' | 'ByteArray' | 'Interface' | 'Array' | 'Struct' |
  'Map' | 'String' | 'Int' | 'Long' | 'IntArray' | 'LongArray' | 'Address';

interface Parameter {
    type: ParameterType;
    value: string;
}

function invoke(contract: string, method: string, parameters: Parameter[], 
  gasPrice: BigNumber, gasLimit: BigNumber): Promise<void>
</pre>

Initiates a <code>method</code> call to a smart <code>contract</code> with supplied <code>parameters</code>.
The <code>gasPrice</code> and <code>gasLimit</code> are hints for the dAPI provider and it should allow user to override those values before signing.

Smart code execution is two step process:

1. The transaction is send to the network.
2. The transaction is recorded to the blockchain at a later time.

The <code>invoke</code> function will finish as soon as the transaction is sent to the network. To receive useful data from <code>method</code> execution it is necessary to start listening for events using <code>addEventListener</code>.


====invokeRead====
<pre>
function invokeRead(contract: string, method: string, parameters: Parameter[]): Promise<any>
</pre>

Initiates a <code>method</code> call to a smart <code>contract</code> with supplied <code>parameters</code> in read only mode (preExec). This kind of method call does not write anything to blockchain and therefore does not need to be signed or paid for. It is processed without user interaction.

====deploy====
<pre>
function invokeRead(code: string, name: string, version: string, author: string, 
    email: string, description: string, needStorage: boolean, gasPrice: BigNumber, gasLimit: BigNumber): Promise<any>
</pre>

Initiates deployment of smart contract. The <code>code</code> parameter represents compiled code of smart contract for NEOVM. The <code>gasPrice</code> and <code>gasLimit</code> are hints for the dAPI provider and it should allow user to override those values before signing.


====addEventListener====
<pre>
type EventListener = (data: any) => void;

function addEventListener(listener: EventListener): void
</pre>

Starts listening for Notify events.

====removeEventListener====
<pre>
function addEventListener(listener: EventListener): void
</pre>

Stops listening for Notify events.

==Rationale==

'''''User story''''': As a '''dApp''' developer, I need to use a lightweight api for integration with Ontology network without requiring my users to share their private keys with me.

==Test Cases==

==Implementation==
OntologyCommunityDevelopers/ontology-plugin-wallet - https://github.com/OntologyCommunityDevelopers/ontology-plugin-wallet
