<pre>
  OEP: 65
  Title: Cross Chain Proxy Standard
  Author: tanyuan<tanyuan666@gmail.com>, skyinglyh<skyinglyh1@gmail.com>
  Type: Standard
  Status: Active
  Created: 2020-02-14
</pre>

==Abstract==


The OEP-65 Proposal is a standard interface for the Cross Chain Proxy Contract serving cross chain asset transaction.
This standard allows you to transfer any amount of fungible tokens from one blockchain to another blockchain supported by ORChain.

==Motivation==
The basic feature of cross chain is asset interoperability. Currently, there exist ERC-20 protocol in Ethereum blockchain and OEP-4 protocol in ONTology blockchain for fungible token.
However, these protocols are designed for transaction within one single blockchain, not suitable for cross chain asset interoperation. As for the scenario where we want to transfer tokens already issued in the source chain to the target blockchain, the OEP-65 Proposal is designed to solve this problem.

==Specification==

===Methods===

====lock====

<pre>
def lock(sourceAssetHash, sourceChainFromAddress, targetChainId, targetChainToAddress, amount)
</pre>

The <code>lock</code> method takes five arguments, completes the work of locking <code>amount</code> of <code>sourceAssetHash</code> tokens to the proxy contract account and invoking the management contract to construct cross chain transaction. 
The <code>sourceAssetHash</code> is the token contract hash, denoting which token we want to transfer in current chain. 
The <code>sourceChainFromAddress</code> is the from address in the current chain, which we want to transfer tokens from. 
The <code>targetChainId</code> is the target chain id, available in ORChain.
The <code>targetChainToAddress</code> is the to address in the target chain.
The <code>amount</code> is the amount of tokens we want to transfer from <code>sourceChainFromAddress</code> in current chain to <code>targetChainToAddress</code> in target chain.

This method should be able to complete the following four functionalities.
* Lock <code>amount</code> of <code>sourceAssetHash</code> tokens from <code>fromAddress</code> into the proxy contract account.
* Increase the total locked supply of <code>sourceAssetHash</code> token and make sure the new locked supply is no more than the limit.
* Invoke the management contract provided officially to create cross chain transaction.
* Emit the lock event.

====unlock====

<pre>
def unlock(args, sourceChainProxyHash, sourceChainId)
</pre>

The <code>unlock</code> method takes three arguments, unlocks specific amount of tokens from the proxy contract account to the to address.
The <code>args</code> is the serialized data for the struct <code>{targetAssetHash, targetChainToAddress, amount}</code>, the encoding and decoding rules in proxy contract of both source chain and target chain should be consistent.
The <code>sourceChainProxyHash</code> is the proxy contract hash in the source chain.
The <code>sourceChainId</code> is the source chain id.

This method should be able to complete the following five functionalities.
* Only the management contract provided officially should have access to this method.
* Make sure the passed in <code>sourceChainProxyHash</code> is consistent with the stored proxy hash corresponding with <code>sourceChainId</code>.
* Unlock <code>amount</code> of <code>targetAssetHash</code> tokens from this proxy contract account into <code>targetChainToAddress</code> address.
* Decrease the total locked supply of <code>targetChainToAddress</code> token and make sure the new locked supply is no less than zero.
* Emit the unlock event.

====bindProxyHash====

<pre>
def bindProxyHash(targetChainId, targetProxyHash)
</pre>

The <code>bindProxyHash</code> method takes two arguments, binds <code>targetProxyHash</code> with <code>targetChainId</code> within this proxy contract.
The <code>targetChainId</code> is the target chain id.
The <code>targetProxyHash</code> is the corresponding proxy contract hash in the blockchain with chain id <code>targetChainId</code>.

This method should be able to complete the following two functionalities.
* Only operator has access to this method.
* Save the <code>targetProxyHash</code> based on the key of <code>targetChainId</code> to storage.

====bindAssetHash====

<pre>
def bindAssetHash(sourceAssetHash, targetChainId, targetAssetHash, assetLimit, isTargetChainAsset)
</pre>

The <code>bindAssetHash</code> method takes five arguments, binds <code>targetAssetHash</code> with <code>sourceAssetHash</code> and <code>targetChainId</code> within this proxy contract. Meanwhile, <code>isTargetChainAsset</code> helps differentiate if the <code>sourceAssetHash</code> is the original asset in current blockchain.
The <code>sourceAssetHash</code> is the asset hash in the current blockchain.
The <code>targetChainId</code> indicates another blockchain with chain id <code>targetChainId</code>.
The <code>targetAssetHash</code> is the hash of same token in another blockchain with chain id <code>targetChainId</code>.
The <code>assetLimit</code> is the limit the operator set to control the interoperable asset supply, which should be no more than <code>assetLimit</code>.
The <code>isTargetChainAsset</code> is the boolean type. If the <code>sourceAssetHash</code> is the original asset in current blockchain, it is set to <code>false</code>, else it is set to <code>true</code>.

This method should be able to complete the following functions.
* Only operator has access to this method.
* Save the <code>targetAssetHash</code> based on the key of <code>sourceAssetHash</code> and <code>targetChainId</code> to storage.
* If <code>isTargetChainAsset</code> is <code>true</code>, increase the token supply to the new <code>assetLimit</code>.
* Reset the interoperable asset limit as <code>assetLimit</code>, which is increasable only.


====getProxyHash====

<pre>
def getProxyHash(toChainId)
</pre>

Return the proxy contract hash in the blockchain with chain id <code>toChainId</code>.

====getAssetHash====

<pre>
def getAssetHash(sourceAssetHash, toChainId)
</pre>

Return the asset contract hash in the blockchain with chain id <code>toChainId</code>.

====getSupply====

<pre>
def getSupply(assetHash, toChainId)
</pre>

Return the specific asset supply of <code>assetHash</code> token within the proxy contract account. If the <code>assetHash</code> is original asset hash, the supply means the amount of tokens flowing out to the blockchain with <code>toChainId</code. If the <code>assetHash</code> is non-original asset hash, (the corresponding <code>assetLimit</code> - supply) indicates the total amount of tokens flowing into the current chain out of source chain with chain id <code>toChainId</code>.

====getLimit====

<pre>
def getLimit(assetHash, toChainId)
</pre>

Return the maximum limit of <code>getSupply(assetHash, toChainId)</code>.

===Rationale===

* When the operator invokes <code>bindAssetHash()</code> method, he should set the maximum limit for asset transmission between source chain and target chain. Meanwhile, the value is forced to be no more than the asset real supply, and the limit in two proxy contracts should be equal.
* Note the <code>unlock()</code> function should be only accessable to the management contract in every blockchain, respectively.
* In the initial stage, there is no asset contract or hash in the target chain, and all the tokens are in the source chain. There are two methods to implement <code>unlock</code> funcationality.
** The token contract in the target chain initializes zero amount of token and implements two additional interfaces, including <code>mint</code> and <code>burn</code>, and the <code>mint</code> function should only be accessable to one specific trustable lock proxy contract.
*** When the token is locked in the source chain, there is no token existing in the target chain. The <code>mint</code> method is used to help mint the locked amount of tokens within the source chain to the target chain address corresponding with the locked address. This operation does not actually increase the supply of this token since the lock process restricts the liquidity of the locked amount of tokens.
*** When the token needs to be trasnferred from target chain back to source chain, the <code>burn</code> method should be invoked to destory a specific amount of tokens. Then in the source chain, the same amount of tokens will be unlocked from the source chain lock proxy contract account.
** The asset contract in the target chain initializes the same supply amount of tokens to itself or to the trustable lock proxy contract account, the tokens should NEVER be initialized any account with private key.
*** In this way, the target chain asset contract needs to implement the <code>delegateToProxy(proxyHash, amount)</code> method. This method transfers <code>amount</code> of tokens to <code>proxyHash</code> proxy contract account. The accumulative delegated amount should be no more than the actual supply of the source chain asset.
*** Both the <code>lock</code> and <code>unlock</code> part can be achieved through <code>transfer</code> or <code>transferFrom</code> interfaces within the protocols.

===Events===

====lock====

<pre>
LockEvent = RegisterAction("lock", "targetChainId", "sourceAssetHash", "sourceChainFromAddress", "targetChainToAddress", "amount")
</pre>

The event must be triggered when <code>lock</code> method is invoked successfully.

====unlock====

<pre>
UnlockEvent = RegisterAction("unlock", "targetAssetHash", "targetChainToAddress", "amount")
</pre>

The event must be triggered on any successful calls to <code>unlock</code> method.

==Implementation==

OEP-65 ONTology Python Template: [[ToBeAdded | ONTology Python Template]]

OEP-65 Ethereum Solidity Template: [[ToBeAdded | Ethereum Solidity Template]]
